Okta documentation. (#25580)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/application-access/okta/reference.mdx

(!docs/pages/includes/okta-import-rule.mdx!)

You can create a new `okta_import_rule` resource by running the following commands, which
assume that you have created a YAML file called `okta-import-rule.yaml` with your configuration:

```code
# Log in to your cluster with tsh so you can use tctl from your local machine.
# You can also run tctl on your Auth Service host without running "tsh login"
# first.
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=myuser
# Create the resource
$ tctl create -f okta-import-rule.yaml
```

## Okta Assignment resources

These objects are internally facing and are not intended to be modified by users. However,
you can query them for informational or debugging purposes.

Full YAML spec of Okta assignment resources queried by `tctl` resource commands:

```yaml
kind: okta_assignment
version: v1
metadata:
  name: test-assignment
spec:
  # The user that the Okta assignment is granting access for.
  user: test-user@test.user
  # The list of targets to grant access to.
  targets:
  # An application target.
  - type: 1
    id: "123456"
  # A group target.
  - type: 2
    id: "234567"
  # The current status of the Okta assignment.
  status: 1
```

> ## CLI

Reviewer: Should these go in the CLI reference page as well? (reference/cli.mdx)

---
title: Okta Service Reference Documentation
description: Configuration and CLI reference documentation for Teleport Okta service.
---

## Configuration

(!docs/pages/includes/backup-warning.mdx!)

> The following snippet shows the full YAML configuration of an Okta Service
> appearing in the `teleport.yaml` configuration file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following snippet shows the full YAML configuration of the Okta Service
as it would appear in the `teleport.yaml` configuration file:
```

```yaml
(!docs/pages/includes/config-reference/okta-service.yaml!)
```

## Okta import rule resources

Full YAML spec of Okta import rule resources managed by `tctl` resource commands:

```yaml
kind: okta_import_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: test-rule
  description: "Okta import rule for admins"
spec:

>   # Mappings describes a list of match directives that describe what lavels to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # Mappings describes a list of match directives that describe what labels to
```

  # apply to specific Okta groups and applications that will be synchronized
  # into Teleport.
  mappings:
  - match:
    # Individual application IDs can be used to create matches. Imported Okta
    # applications will be matched based on the app IDs listed here.
    - app_ids: ["app1", "app2"]
    # These labels will be added to matching applications.
    add_labels:
      app_label: app_label_value
  - match:
    # Similarly, group IDs can be used to create matches.
    - group_ids: ["group1", "group2"]
    # These labels will be added to the groups.
    add_labels:
      label1: value1
```

You can create a new `okta_import_rule` resource by running the following commands, which
assume that you have created a YAML file called `okta-import-rule.yaml` with your configuration:

> <ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise"]}>

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove the `ScopedBlock` tags here. Users tend not to realize that you can adjust scope, and since the default scope is `oss`, the code snippet won't appear for most users.

```code
# Log in to your cluster with tsh so you can use tctl from your local machine.
# You can also run tctl on your Auth Service host without running "tsh login"
# first.
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=myuser
# Create the resource
$ tctl create -f okta-import-rule.yaml
```

</ScopedBlock>

## Okta assignment resources

Full YAML spec of Okta assignment resources queried by `tctl` resource commands:

```yaml
kind: okta_assignment
version: v1
metadata:
  name: test-assignment
spec:
  # The user that the Okta assignment is granting access for.
  user: test-user@test.user
  # The list of targets to grant access to.
  targets:
  # An application target.
  - type: application
    id: "123456"
  # A group target.
  - type: group
    id: "234567"
  # The current status of the Okta assignment.
  status: pending
```

> These objects are internally facing and are not intended to be modified by users. However,

Reviewer 2: I would put this paragraph before the snippet to set expectations that this is intended to be read only.

you can query them for informational or debugging purposes.

## CLI

> This section shows CLI commands relevant for application access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section shows CLI commands relevant for managing access to Okta applications through Teleport:
```
Assuming this is accurate—suggested for precision

---
title: Okta Service Reference Documentation
description: Configuration and CLI reference documentation for Teleport Okta service.
---

## Configuration

(!docs/pages/includes/backup-warning.mdx!)

The following snippet shows the full YAML configuration of an Okta Service
appearing in the `teleport.yaml` configuration file:

```yaml
(!docs/pages/includes/config-reference/okta-service.yaml!)
```

## Okta import rule resources

Full YAML spec of Okta import rule resources managed by `tctl` resource commands:

```yaml
kind: okta_import_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  # Okta import rule name.
  name: test-rule

>   # Okta import rule description.

Reviewer: nit: I don't personally see the comments above name and description as necessary. Those are pretty obvious and it might be less noise if you just removed them.

  description: "Okta import rule for admins"
spec:
  # Mappings describes a list of match directives that describe what lavels to
  # apply to specific Okta groups and applications that will be synchronized
  # into Teleport.
  mappings:
  - match:
    # Individual application IDs can be used to create matches. Imported Okta
    # applications will be matched based on the app IDs listed here.
    - app_ids: ["app1", "app2"]

>     # These lablels will be added to matching applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # These labels will be added to matching applications.
```

    add_labels:
      app_label: app_label_value
  - match:
    # Similarly, group IDs can be used to create matches.
    - group_ids: ["group1", "group2"]
    # These labels will be added to the groups.
    add_labels:
      label1: value1
```

You can create a new `okta_import_rule` resource by running the following commands, which
assume that you have created a YAML file called `okta-import-rule.yaml` with your configuration:

<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise"]}>

```code
# Log in to your cluster with tsh so you can use tctl from your local machine.
# You can also run tctl on your Auth Service host without running "tsh login"
# first.
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=myuser
# Create the resource
$ tctl create -f okta-import-rule.yaml
```

</ScopedBlock>

## Okta assignment resources

Full YAML spec of Okta assignment resources queried by `tctl` resource commands:

```yaml
kind: okta_assignment
version: v1
metadata:
  # The name of the Okta assignment.
  name: test-assignment
spec:
  # The user that the Okta assignment is granting access for.
  user: test-user@test.user
  # The list of targets to grant access to.
  targets:
  # An application target.

>   - type: 1

Reviewer: So `1` is application and `2` is group?

Why not `type: app` and `type: group` instead?

Author: During implementation these enums didn't come across this way. I'll see if there's something I can do to make these serialize more legibly.

Author: So I think this is going to take more work to do than just getting something in quick -- this is going to have to stay enums and we'll need to resolve it later on. I'll file an issue for this.

    id: "123456"
  # A group target.
  - type: 2
    id: "234567"
  # The current status of the Okta assignment.

>   status: 1

Reviewer: What are the valid statuses? `status: 1` doesn't really give any clue as to what this is actually for.

```

These objects are internally facing and are not intended to be modified by users. However,
you can query them for informational or debugging purposes.

## CLI

This section shows CLI commands relevant for application access.

> ### tsh get okta_import_rules

Reviewer: Is it really `tsh get` or should this be `tctl`?

If it is `tsh` - does it really make sense to add a new `get` subcommand just for Okta? This breaks the paradigm with the rest of the tsh commands.

Author: My mistake, this should have been `tctl`.

Reviewer: I was hoping you'd say that 🙏
